# Detection-and-Classification-of-Skin-Cancer-using-CNN-and-Machine-Learning-Classifiers

Skin cancer is one of the most fatal disease which took many lives per
year. Its early detection is very costly and challenging task because of very small difference between melanoma moles and normal skin areas. In this study, we proposed a hybrid model for detection and classification of skin cancer by using CNN pre-trained models like ResNet, GoogleNet, VGG16, InceptionV3 via transfer learning to extract deep features from the dermatoscopic images available in the HAM1000 dataset along with traditional Machine learning classifiers like SVM, KNN, RF and Decision Tree to classify seven classes of skin cancer namely actinic keratoses and intraepithelial carcinoma (akiec), basal cell carcinoma (bcc), benign keratosis-like lesions (bkl), dermatofibroma (df), melanoma (mel), melanocytic nevi (nv) and vascular lesions (vasc). This could help the clinicians to diagnose the right class of skin cancer for early and accurate treatment of patient to increase the chances of saving his life. A publicly available dataset HAM1000 is used which contains 1015 dermatoscopic images of pigmented skin lesions. This large dataset solves the problem of limited availability of dermatoscopic images of skin lesions. By using data augmentation method and some other pre-processing techniques, efficiency of the model could be improved. Different pre-trained models of CNN, state of the art deep learning algorithm, like ResNet, GoogleNet, VGG16 used for feature extraction from dermatoscopic images. In addition, traditional Machine learning classifiers like Random Forest, SVM, KNN, Decision tree could be implemented for classification of seven classes of skin cancer available in dataset. This could help clinicians to diagnose and recognize right category of skin cancer and to start accurate and early treatment of patient to save his life.
